camino/camino_2024-10.md, before:

# Camino 2024-10-12 till 2024-10-21

The dates listed below refer to the departure from the accommodation, not the arrival.

## Arrival in Porto

### 2024-10-13 Porto - Invictus hostel
R. Das Oliveiras 73, 4050-449 Porto, Portugal  
A crowded hostel located in Porto's lively party district.

## Camino Portugués Coastal, Spain

### 2024-10-14 Vigo - Precioso apartment
Rúa do Ecuador 78, 36204 Vigo, Spain  
An apartment conveniently located near the bus station and Santiago de Vigo church.

### 2024-10-15 Redondela - Apartment of Maria Rosa
R. Blanco Amor 13, 36800 Redondela  
Ideal for a family of 6 on the Camino, this apartment has two bathrooms, three bedrooms, and is situated in a quiet area.

### 2024-10-16 Pontevedra - Albergue Virxe Peregrina
Rúa de Ramón Otero Pedraio, s/n, 36004 Pontevedra, Spain  
Good common areas but the crowded dormitory gets too hot during the night.

### 2024-10-17 Briallos - Albergue de Peregrinos de Briallos
EP-8102, 25, 8102, 36658 O Cruceiro, Pontevedra, Spain  
The best albergue on this camino.

### 2024-10-18 Pontecesures - Albergue de peregrinos de Pontecesures
Carr. Escuelas, 8, 36640 Pontecesures, Pontevedra, Spain  
Pontecesures is an industrial town, but the albergue has good common areas and is lightly occupied.

### 2024-10-19 Teo - Albergue de Peregrinos de Teo
Vilares de Calo, s/n, 15866 Rúa de Francos, A Coruña, Spain  
Likely the last municipal albergue before Santiago, which makes it quite crowded.

### 2024-10-20 Santiago de Compostela - Apartment of Maria Dolores
Av. de Rodríguez de Viguri, 4, portal 4, 15703 Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña, Spain  
An apartment with 9 beds, located 1.5 km from the Cathedral, ideal for a group stay.

## Departure from Porto

### 2024-10-21 Porto - Loureiro Villas
Rua do Loureiro 47 - 49, União de Freguesias do Centro, 4000-328 Porto, Portugal  
An apartment located next to São Bento trainstation in the city center.

Commit message:

Added pros and cons of sleeping places Porto till Recondela

camino/camino_2024-10.md, after:

# Camino 2024-10-12 till 2024-10-21

The dates listed below refer to the departure from the accommodation, not the arrival.

## Arrival in Porto

### 2024-10-13 Porto - Invictus hostel
R. Das Oliveiras 73, 4050-449 Porto, Portugal  
A crowded hostel located in Porto's lively party district.
+ Friendly reception in the evening with a free glass of port.
+ Located in the city center.
- Located in the party district. On saturday nights, one hears music and people talking loudly till 3 AM.
- Only one toilet shared by a whole floor.
- Almost no common areas when the reception is closed between 11 PM and 10 AM.
- Kitchen is very small with only one table that seats 3 people for the whole hostel !
- Many hostel guests sleep in late so that one has to keep quiet and keep the lights off in the dormitory during the morning.

## Camino Portugués Coastal, Spain

### 2024-10-14 Vigo - Precioso apartment
Rúa do Ecuador 78, 36204 Vigo, Spain  
An apartment conveniently located near the bus station and Santiago de Vigo church.
+ Close to the bus station and the starting point of our Camino, the Santiago de Vigo church.
+ Coffee maker with cups of coffee.
+ Three bedrooms, each with a double bed.
- The electricity plug came out when unplugging the coffee maker. It caused a bit of a panic, but after several tries, it could be plugged back in.
- Only one bathroom with both the toilet and the shower. For a group of six, it would be useful to have an extra bathroom.

### 2024-10-15 Redondela - Apartment of Maria Rosa
R. Blanco Amor 13, 36800 Redondela  
Ideal for a family of 6 on the Camino, this apartment has two bathrooms, three bedrooms, and is situated in a quiet area.
+ Maria Rosa gave us a tour of the apartment.
+ Three bedrooms, one of which had two single beds for the two oldest boys.
+ Two bathrooms, each equipped with a toilet and a shower.
+ Washing machine provided for our dirty clothes. There was no dryer, but a heater helped dry the clothes by morning.
+ Supermarket and kebab restaurant nearby.
+ Quiet neighborhood on the outskirts of Redondela.
- The furniture is a bit old, but who cares.
- We had to wait about 10 minutes at the entrance before Maria Rosa and her husband arrived to let us into the apartment.

### 2024-10-16 Pontevedra - Albergue Virxe Peregrina
Rúa de Ramón Otero Pedraio, s/n, 36004 Pontevedra, Spain  
Good common areas but the crowded dormitory gets too hot during the night.

### 2024-10-17 Briallos - Albergue de Peregrinos de Briallos
EP-8102, 25, 8102, 36658 O Cruceiro, Pontevedra, Spain  
The best albergue on this camino.

### 2024-10-18 Pontecesures - Albergue de peregrinos de Pontecesures
Carr. Escuelas, 8, 36640 Pontecesures, Pontevedra, Spain  
Pontecesures is an industrial town, but the albergue has good common areas and is lightly occupied.

### 2024-10-19 Teo - Albergue de Peregrinos de Teo
Vilares de Calo, s/n, 15866 Rúa de Francos, A Coruña, Spain  
Likely the last municipal albergue before Santiago, which makes it quite crowded.

### 2024-10-20 Santiago de Compostela - Apartment of Maria Dolores
Av. de Rodríguez de Viguri, 4, portal 4, 15703 Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña, Spain  
An apartment with 9 beds, located 1.5 km from the Cathedral, ideal for a group stay.

## Departure from Porto

### 2024-10-21 Porto - Loureiro Villas
Rua do Loureiro 47 - 49, União de Freguesias do Centro, 4000-328 Porto, Portugal  
An apartment located next to São Bento trainstation in the city center.
